---
title: "The Secret Lives of Barbies"
date: 2019-06-21T11:55:48-07:00
tags: ["The Body Politic"]
categories: ["Posts"]
draft: true
---

## The Secret Lives of Barbies


___The first rule about Barbies is that you don’t talk about Barbies___

My peak imaginative play years were dominated by play with Mattel’s Barbie brand plastic dolls. The rooms that I shared with my older sister and then later, with my younger sister were inundated with an overwhelming the flotsam of Mattel parts, and accessories. My mother organized them into mini rubbermaid dressers and organizers. There were drawers for shoes, drawers for clothes, furniture, and spare legs. Barbie’s activities were not restricted to my bedroom, her adventures spilled out to the porch, the yard, the bathroom, the garage and any other playspace she could requisition. Nor did she limit her material wealth to the off the shelf products acquired off of toy shelves, at box stores, thrift shops and garage sales; her imaginary life was furnished with found objects converted to suit her, jewelry boxes as beds, towels, buckets became pools, cereal boxes decks, washcloths were beach towels, paper towels and toilet paper rolls were constructed with tape into furniture. 

This situation was not unique to my house. I saw it iterated in the homes of cousins, neighbors and classmates. I played with these dolls from as early as I can remember until the age of about eleven and I did so with girls (and very occasionally boys) of many ages ranging from up to six years older or younger than me, at any given time. We would gather in groups of 2-10 and disappear into bedrooms and gardens for hours of quiet cooperative play for hours on end. Every girl I knew had Barbies and every girl knew how to play

___What was there to know?___

There was no official rule book but the world of playing Barbies had a social code.The hostess had exclusive rights to her newest or most favored doll, she may show her favor toward a special friend by offering her doll but she was never expected to share it. Doll names, back-stories, bedrooms and clothes had to be picked at the beginning of a play session. You could take anything you wanted from the bins boxes and common areas but once a girl claimed an item as her doll’s you were not to touch it without permission. Ken dolls, however were shared, if you wanted a date with a Ken you needed to reserve it for the night. Any child who could not go with this flow of play was typically kicked off the island. The youngest always seemed to get last pick unless she had an older sibling who was in the mood to pitch for her. 

Barbie time moved in a series of rapidly simulated days. In a single day our dolls might wake up, do chores, host events, go to work, go camping, go to the moon, go on dates, have sex, get married, get pregnant, give birth and go back to bed. 

But there was one thing I never saw Barbie do. Barbie did not leave the home. Sure I would take some dolls in the car with me or to a friend’s house. But she never left the bubble of the domestic sphere. We did not talk about Barbie play at school, EVER.  We never wore barbie branded clothing, or dared dream of carrying school supplies. We didn’t tell adults about or fantasy worlds and we certainly didn’t ever answer as to why mom found Barbie and Ken stacked on top of each-other in the dreamhouse sweet without their clothes. We saw almost no depictions of our play in popular culture or media outside of advertisements. There was no equivalent of sandlot for the Barbie set. Somehow these toys dominated the lives of millions of girls for decades, but the way we played with them and the place they had in our lives is hardly discussed. 

Before millennials ruined sex, Applebees, or cars or fast food, or toast, we had it out for Barbie. Barbie’s official fall from dominance over American girl culture was marked by a flurry of news stories in 2014-2015 announcing five consecutive years of dropping sales. I did not read any of these news stories. I passed over the headlines and did little more than register my complete lack of surprise. Barbie’s sentence had been passed in the 90’s it’s just that nobody in the media took notice until her once most dedicated followers achieved the social power to carry it out -the power of motherhood. Sometime around Middle school my friends and I started to distinguish ourselves through deliberate declarations of rebellion against the ultra femme world of pink that marked our Barbie bedecked girlhooods. It was the 90’s baby! GI Jane was a thing Sineade O’connor was out there in her bald headed combat booted glory tearing up pictures of the Pope, Alanis Morisset was shrieking about what you oughta know. We began making our pledges not to give these dolls to our daughters. Our emerging understanding of feminism made it painfully obvious to us that Barbie was detrimental, with her we had been playing out a hypersexualized, white, blonde, body dysmorphic, materialistic version of womanhood.

We talked about the absurdity of it all and the alternatives we wanted for our own daughters some day. The sales plummets noted from 2010-2015 bore out the choices that my friends and I were making. We wanted a bigger world for our daughter’s than the one Mattel built for us. 

There are some hobbyists and collectors and aficionados who have carried an interest in the dolls into adulthood. But it’s generally relegated to a niche, eccentricity or punchline (see Titus Andromedon). The dolls are still easy to find but as the mother of a seven year old girl, I can tell you that Barbie has moved from the center of girlhood home life into the margins. My own girl has a few barbie style dolls, she thinks the Malibu Dreamhouse animated series is hilarious but she has no idea how large they loomed over my childhood play and they have never made their way onto a Christmas or birthday list. 

Barbie’s place in our culture has faded into a quiet mist of nostalgia. But unlike the nostalgia that my male counterparts enjoy for their G.I. Joes or Ninja turtles, I hold mine in a quiet secret place. I think my peers may have the same experiences and feelings but I haven’t even spoken with my sisters of in over 20 years.  It was easy to bury our Barbies without discussion. Barbie was so easy to scorn. Like countless inconvenient and complicated women before her she was easy to dispose of and even easier to forget about.  

We learned from playing with our Barbie’s that we were expected to aspire to be white, blonde, rich, pretty and thin. No sooner did we internalize these lessons than we were told that to aspire to these things was to be shallow, selfish, frivolous and vain. We learned from the way our play was set up and its absence from public discourse, that all the feminine things that Barbie did - the things that captivated our minds and seemed to dominate the lives of the adult women around us - were concerns of little consequence to be excluded from serious discussion. And so we go on living our secret lives and we hardly know we’re doing it, so practiced are we at playing pretend. 
